Buying and selling stocks and shares has always involved a lot of third parties, such as brokers and the stock exchange itself. Here is how trading works:
The buyer or seller initiates the trade.
A broker sends a transaction to a stock exchange.
The transaction is matched with another party (the counterparty).
The transaction is sent to Central Counterparty Clearing House for risks evaluation.
The buyer’s or seller’s representatives work with the Central Securities Depository (CSD) to record the transfer.
The transaction is sent to the Registrar or Transfer Agent of Initial Trade to update their list of shareholders.
As you see, the traditional stock exchange process involves lots of stages and bureaucracy and can take up to 3 days. However, the decentralized nature of blockchain technology in banking can remove all those unnecessary intermediaries and enable trading to be run on computers all over the world. No more dedicated servers united into an interconnected network.
Pros: Trading transactions in blockchain reduce the redundancy of information and thus improve performance. As a result, smaller transactions between groups of traders can be quickly handled outside the blockchain, and only the final transactions are recorded to the blockchain, without any intermediary steps.
Cons: Trading with blockchain can impose risks such as “private keys” – variables that are used for a number of the electronic signature options available, that can be potentially stolen or lost. Those keys prove the ownership of specific assets, thus allowing the hackers to change the ownership. However, there is a way out – multi-signature transactions that can be integrated into the asset trading applications running on blockchain technology. Signatures of all parties before agreeing upon a transaction can prevent the keys from being stolen and the ownership from being changed.
Usage Examples: In 2015, Nasdaq, the world’s second-largest stock exchange company, was planning to use blockchain for their Private Market Platform. They were going to implement a colored coin concept that could help to distinguish the coins used for trading from other coins. Besides, together with Citigroup, Nasdaq invested into the Chain blockchain ledger to power a shared and trusted distributed database that records all transactions and ownership changes in real-time.